                                                                               +1 (431) 373-3795 
 Nabeel Khan                                                                me@nabeelkhan.com 

 Summary 

     •  Data Scientist and business visionary with hands-on 18+ years of experience in automating 
multi-billion-dollar enterprises. Strong Political and business acumen in creating robust IT architectures 
and infrastructures. Proven ability to bring the benefits of Artificial Intelligence to solve business, 
decreasing costs, and minimizing risks. Twelve years of building cloud-based e-commerce solutions. 

     •  Expertise in transforming business requirements into analytical models, designing algorithms, 
building models, developing data mining, and classification, regression, clustering, solutions that scale 
across the massive volume of structured and unstructured data utilizing various data sources. 

    •   Experience in leading geographically distributed teams, integrating and maintaining Serverless 
and Containers, AWS cloud services (Redshift, Lambda, API Gateway, S3, CloudWatch), with big data 
(Spark, Hadoop), pipeline and Workflow management tools (Airflow) as well as various testing paradigms 
such as shadow deployments services.  

    •   The talent of proactively identifying and solving problems    with research mindset – 
automating systems to maximize productivity by discovering patterns, formulate and test hypotheses, 
developing metrics, translating results into strategies using different kinds of machine learning models, 
such as NLP, deep learning, computer vision or regression models; utilizing different ML frameworks - 
Scikit-learn, SpaCy, Keras, OpenCV and TensorFlow. 

    •   Hands on experience developing,   optimizing, and implementing for mobile App image 
recognition with transfer learning, Bayesian Multiple Kernel Learning recommender and ranking models 
for Predicting Emotional States of  user, using Deep Neural Networks (DNNs)    in a production 
environment; leading data projects from problem identification to production. 

 Skills 

• Business Acumen & Leadership                      •  Strong analytical & problem solving 
• IT Operations & Management skills                 •  Machine & Deep Learning Skills 
• Program Management & Development                  •  Project Management & Delivery 
• Predictive & Prescriptive Analysis                •  Data & Quantitative Analysis 
• Communication and Collaboration skills            •  Solution & Decision Analysis 
• Electronic Commerce Strategy/Development          •  Business Process Modeling & Improvement  

 Experience 
 Sr. Manager Data Science       Monsterhub, Inc                                          2 Year  
                                Brisbane, Australia                       October 2018 to Current 
    •   Leading off-shore technical team of 12 multinational members spanning over three countries 
        involved in designing, developing, optimizing and supporting various AI applications for clients 
        powered by serverless and container architecture using AWS serverless, and container services. 

    •   Oversee and manage on-going   research and develop product requirements leveraging new 
        tools, libraries and frameworks in ML, AWS Cloud (Lambda, Serverless, and container) 
        technologies.  

    •   Planned and executed research and development of NLP based AI solution utilizing NLTK while 
        exploring other models for Topic Extraction, Applied RNN Bidirectional LSTM to recognize the 
        threat from the chat conversation and Name Entity Recognition using SpaCy. Implemented 

                                          Page 1 of 6 
  
                                                                                +1 (431) 373-3795 
                                                                              me@nabeelkhan.com 
                                                                                Winnipeg, Canada 
Nabeel Khan’s Resume 

       various validation methods in Scikit-learn to measure the performance and the best 
       hyperparameter for the classifier.  

   •   Architected, built and leading team to build Realtime facial recognition using DeepFace, 
       TensorFlow, Keras, and OpenCV for facial, expression, gender, emotion, distraction, and object 
       detection AI Proctoring system.  

   •   Ensuring the adherence to a consistent standardized service delivery model (ITIL) rooted in IT 
       Service Management   (ITSM) best practices and work with technical and development teams 
       to deploy models. Build Model Performance Reports and Modeling Technical Documentation to 
       support each of the models for the product line.   

   •   Lead, mentor and grow a team of data sciences, analysis and data engineers. 

Chief Data Scientist          Council of Ministers                                     3 Years 
                              State of Kuwait                        December 2014 to April 2018 
   •   Perform Data Profiling and trend analysis to learn about behaviors using descriptive statistics 
       and Identified challenges and arranged areas of improvement and put best practices in place; 
       designed several Machine learning algorithms using matrix factorization models to better detect 
       groups or clusters in various data sets for job matching system. 

   •   Developed  forecasting model to be used in integrated  hiring and planning. Conducted 
       Marketing Mix Measurement, campaign analysis, program optimization, customer 
       segmentation, ROI analysis, and predictive modeling. 

   •   Provide technical guidance and mentorship to junior data scientists and data engineers in 
       solution design  utilizing behavioral targeting techniques, clustering and classification 
       algorithms to deliver a 250% increase in performance for Job applicants. 

   •   Spearheaded development of proto-type system for Civil Service Commission Kuwait, to 
       centralized Statewide hiring of Citizens, and designed skill-based assessments system, which 
       increased hiring response by 96% resulting signed into law by Amir of Kuwait in 2018.  

   •   Influenced labor force data integration public policies by performing exploratory analysis, 
       utilizing various machine learning algorithms and statistical Modeling like decision trees, text 
       analytics, natural language processing (NLP), supervised and unsupervised, regression models, 
       social network analysis, neural networks, deep learning, SVM, clustering to identify Volume using 
       Scikit-learn package in python, MATLAB. 

Chief Data Scientist          Kuwait University                                       3 Years 
                              State of Kuwait                       January 2011 to October 2014 
   •   Directed development and deployment of Kuwait Register Based Census System (KRBCS), 
       Data warehouse with Business Intelligence based on various terabytes of data sources through 
       phased, iterative releases - each delivered on time and within budget using applied principles 
       of agile methodologies. KRBCS primarily designed to produce statistical report, Predictive 
       modelling, forecasting and outlier detection. required by the State of Kuwait, Central Statistical 
       Office and UNDP. 

   •   Develop  technical requirements for Data acquisition, quality assurance, pre-processing , 
       cleaning, curation, translation and visualization from 17 government agencies i.e., Civil 
       Information, Tax Revenue, Interior etc. 


                                         Page 2 of 6 
 
                                                                                +1 (431) 373-3795 
                                                                              me@nabeelkhan.com 
                                                                                Winnipeg, Canada 
Nabeel Khan’s Resume 

   •   Developing and implementing supervised  machine learning algorithms for data classification 
       and mapping between core statistical system and 17 government data sources using Support 
       Vector Machines (SVMs), Neural Networks, Random Forests, k-Nearest Neighbors (KNN), Decision 
       Trees. 

   •   Developing and implementing unsupervised    machine learning algorithms to identify and 
       extract Parent - child relationships to solve hidden polygamous marriages, to detect hidden 
       patterns of unreported Income, using Centroid divisive hierarchical clustering and Gaussian 
       mixture methods.  

   •   Developed  Clustering and classification algorithms, SQL procedures  for capturing and 
       documenting business rules, for verifying 900 central statistical office census data rules, 
       improving data quality by 90% as compared to the manual system. 

Data Analytics Manager        HP – AL- Khaldiya                                         1 Year  
                              State of Kuwait                       March 2010 to December 2010 
   •   Increased sales by 34% by Identifying critical factors by developing and maintain relationships 
       with key stakeholders across value delivery, product, engineering and operations to help your 
       team succeed. 

   •   Analyze key performance metrics to measure effectiveness and drive improvements, implement 
       best practices around data manipulation, building data pipelines, feature engineering and 
       creating dashboards. 

   •   Systematized a repeatable process for delivering advanced analytics solutions and data products 
       in collaboration with other technology and business leaders and customers. Actively support 
       hiring and team development plans for department. 

Sr. Data Analyst &            Tawasul Telecom                                          2 Years  
IT Project Manager            State of Kuwait                     September 2008 to January 2010 
   •   Translating product roadmaps and feature requests into models, workflow diagrams, user 
       stories, acceptance criteria, and understanding design, business logic, and technical architecture 
       of customer platform components and how those components interact with   the rest of the 
       platform to deliver integrated solutions. 

   •   Developed predictive causal model using annual failure rate and standard cost basis for the new 
       bundled services. Working with product management, development, and other departments to 
       actively remove obstacles blocking progress and ensure program is within schedule 

   •   Develop change management and data quality processes to ensure users of data are able to 
       focus on insights. Led the design and development of visualization tools for business units by 
       publishing KPIs/Metrics to be used to measure the effectiveness and efficiency of managed 
       solutions portfolio. 

   •   Supporting product management, marketing, sales, professional services, training, and technical 
       support throughout the release process with training, documentation, announcements, and 
       other release activities 

   •   Developed an Estimation model for various product & services bundled offering to optimize and 
       predict the gross margin 

   •   Created work estimates, track progress, and report status in the form of burn up/down charts 
       and prioritizing and grooming their teams’ backlog. 

                                         Page 3 of 6 
 
                                                                                +1 (431) 373-3795 
                                                                              me@nabeelkhan.com 
                                                                                Winnipeg, Canada 
Nabeel Khan’s Resume 

   •   Build and trained team of 4 Project managers, implemented department level standards, Actively 
       developed Solution implementation handbooks, database recovery manual, and other technical 
       documentation. 

Senior Data Analyst           Zain Group                                                1 Year  
                              Khartoum, Sudan                          October 2007 to July 2008 
   •   Designed and Implemented two   nodes for billing and three nodes for history, eCare and web 
       portal Oracle Real Application Cluster. Using Data Guard, Oracle Streams and Oracle Flashback 
       Technology to ensure 24 x 7 business continuity. 

   •   Implementing a combination of MAA to achieve 2.5 minutes downtime, for 12 Oracle databases 
       using Oracle Real Application Clusters, Oracle Data Guard, Oracle Streams, Oracle Flashback 
       Technology, and Automatic Storage Management (ASM). 

   •   Project Manager for data migration from the old billing system (Mobex and Apex) on Informix 
       to oracle (Telecommunication Administration and Billing System: TABS).  

   •   Collaborated with data engineers and operation team to implement the ETL process, wrote and 
       optimized SQL queries to perform data extraction to fit the analytical requirements. 

   •   Explored and analyzed the customer specific features by using Matplotlib, and performed data 
       imputation using Scikit-learn package in Python. Worked on data cleaning and ensured data 
       quality, consistency, integrity using Pandas, NumPy. 

   •   Worked with data compliance teams, Data governance team to maintain data models, Metadata, 
       Data Dictionaries; define source fields and its definitions. 

   •   Deployed tuning techniques to optimize database response time with over 40 million records 
       updates per 5 minutes. Designed and implemented data load procedure for web portal and 
       data warehouse reducing 70% of data loading time. 

   •   Decreased software-licensing cost by 50% ($1.2 Million) by designing architectural standards 
       for the CSX database infrastructure and implementing only required database technologies for 
       new business operations.  

Data Processing Manager       Z-Investment                                             2 Years  
                              State of Kuwait                     October 2005 to September 2007 
   •   Planned, organized and managed startup’s data processing operations, including 
       implementation of dedicated channel for stock trading and eCommerce platform for portfolio 
       holders under the general direction of finance director. 

   •   Planned, scheduled and supervised implementation of Oracle Financials & Oracle Collaboration 
       Suit for the company and the entire group to save an estimated $20K annually.  

   •   Provide technical expertise to other departments concerning operational priorities, evaluate the 
       company’s data processing needs, meet and coordinate activities with data processing vendors, 
       determine equipment needs and make assessments.  

   •   Responsible for equipment procurement and installation, aiding other departments; evaluating 
       and recommending appropriate programs, monitoring and assessing installed applications and 
       meeting with users to determine data processing needs.  


                                         Page 4 of 6 
 
                                                                                +1 (431) 373-3795 
                                                                              me@nabeelkhan.com 
                                                                                Winnipeg, Canada 
Nabeel Khan’s Resume 

   •   Seasonally identify and fix information system problems, determine new system requirements, 
       modifications or upgrades necessary to existing systems, create systems and supporting 
       documentation, oversee and coordinate overall systems development and modification of 
       applications software. 

   •   Effectively hired and trained system administrator and the team of two junior developers.   

Senior Data Analyst           Kuwait Insurance Company                                 4 Years  
                               State of Kuwait                  December 2001 to September 2005 
   •   Performed analysis on claims vs insurance and overall trends using multiple data sources to lead 
       team members to develop Premium calculation engine implemented in business applications. 

   •   Translated the business needs into detailed business requirement specifications.  

   •   Created high-level and detailed UML activity diagrams, use cases, and decision matrices for all 
       requirements.  

   •   Actively participated in planning, resourcing and execution of advanced analytics products and 
       projects across a variety of business units namely, Insurance, Re-Writing, Shareholder and 
       Dividend processing, Claims departments. 

   •   Collaborated and Coordinated with multiple business units during the development cycle, 
       conveyed complex technical issues to diverse and senior audiences. 

   •   Translated Business requirements into System specifications for effective communication with 
       both technical and non-technical individuals. 

Database Administrator        Kuwait Insurance Company                                 2 Years 
                              State of Kuwait                   September 1999 to December 2001 
   •   Responsible for designing, creating, installing, configuring and maintaining Three (3) production 
       Oracle databases used for business applications deployed on Digital Alpha Servers HP- TRU64 
       UNIX, Windows 2000 and Red Hat Linux servers. 

   •   Designed and configured a 2-Node and a 4-Node Oracle 9i RAC (Real Application Cluster) using 
       data guard to replicate to 2 standby databases as a high-availability solution for the medical 
       claim system used online. Setup and administer 9i Physical Standby databases as part of the 
       disaster recovery strategy; this meets the 15-minute maximum downtime requirement by CEO. 

   •   The technical architect for the data warehouse with an input of over 250 approx. Files every 
       month from various sources. Developed automated  process that would validate, cleanse and 
       report aggregated erroneous data, alert business users and substantially ease support effort — 
       interacted with developers to ensure proper loading of data. 

   •   Tuned  SQL statements, programmed   security policies through roles and database triggers, 
       managed all Oracle Objects (Tables, Indexes, Views, Procedures, Triggers, Functions), analyzed 
       tables, reorganized indexes, rebuilding indexes and constraints as needed.  

   •   Applied Archive files for Time Based Recovery, using Import, Export, Cold backups to replicate 
       and reproduce database to point in time. 

Education 

   •   Bachelor of Computer Science (BCS), 1999 

                                         Page 5 of 6 
 
